he went from cross-examining witnesses
to crisscrossing the world in search of
the perfect cocoa it is the case of a
lawyer turned chocolate maker I'm Mike
Schneider and this is venture
alright we welcome you to venture once
again the world of small business and
big ideas this time around we're going
to introduce you to Sean Eskenazi the
founder of ashkenazi chocolate every
drop of the river is hot melted
chocolate of the finest quality this
trip to the Chocolate Factory started in
the courtroom ill he was a criminal
defense attorney but created in
defending accused killers for a much
sweeter job after two first-degree
murder cases back to back within a four
month period I needed to do something
else and so I searched and searched and
eventually after five years of praying
chocolate cake Sean asked Anozie took
his savings and a one and a half million
dollar bank loan to open his chocolate
factory in a rehabilitated downtown
Springfield Missouri loft now he buys
cocoa from farmers in Mexico Ecuador in
the Philippines he features those
farmers prominently on his packaging and
shares his profits with it it's a recipe
that's catching on in just under two
years Eskenazi chocolate can be found in
the shelves of the food emporium in New
York whole food stores in Colorado and
the chocolate has cultivated the
following from Singapore to sweetie from
prison bars two chocolate bars Charlie
would agree that's the golden ticket
Sean ashkenazi is here with us right now
this is a fascinating story there you
are engaging in in the legal career of
significant importance capital cases and
you you turn your your well I shouldn't
say that way did you turn your back on
it for any particular reason Mike there
really wasn't one reason it was sort of
a culmination I mean I spent almost 20
years in the criminal defense world lots
of courtroom lots of high stress high
profile a lot of pressure death threats
and so it just sort of culminates and
what ultimately happened for me is I
just kind of lost my passion for it I
needed something else this it's
fascinating it's a wonderful success
story
and there's so many things about doing
well and doing good at the same time
which we'll talk about but had you had
any experience at all in dealing with
chocolate or candy or food when this
came to me I had absolutely no idea
where chocolate came from I did not know
that it came from a beam I didn't know
that it came from the equator regions of
the world but after a couple murder
cases you know I needed a hobby so I
started cooking you know like a lot of
guys I was grilling outside before that
I couldn't make a pop-tart and my wife
would attest to that and so I just
started from there and then I started
baking and baking I sort of became
obsessed with cupcakes I mean I've made
thousands of cupcakes and that's what
led me to the chocolate desserts and
then from the chocolate desserts to
actually making chocolate did you what
was the first time he ever made
chocolate I made chocolate in may june
two thousand five at home in my kitchen
did you go out by the cocoa beans or i
bought the cocoa beans online and
learned how to do it online and made a
complete mess and it took it took me
about a week just to make a pound of
chocolate but you know from that point
and really even before that point before
I've made it I knew I mean this was a
passion that I really felt like I could
get into and spend a long time with had
you at that point put together a
business plan in your mind at least or
on paper in the in a very very beginning
I didn't know for sure it was going to
be a business I mean it kind of started
as a hobby but by the end of that summer
I'd traveled to the amazon to learn
about how cocoa is harvested where it
comes from how to influence flavor then
I put together a business plan and I
didn't I didn't have I don't have
investors I didn't need a business plan
for the bank but it was just absolutely
key and I tell students that when I
travel around and speak I don't care
what you're doing if you're going to
start a business please put together a
business plan I still have a business
plan now you went to the bank for what
one and a half million is that correct
well ultimately you know since the
inception of the business we've borrowed
around three quarters of a million and
then I've put in myself about seven
hundred thousand dollars went and you
when you went to the bank to borrow what
did they say to you well this bank let's
say you're a lawyer you're a lawyer
who's making chocolate now
well your day at the point I went to the
bank I mean I have I had a 15-year
history with this bank as a lawyer and
I'd known me for a long time it's a
small local bank and they just said we
know where ya we know where to find you
and at that point I'm still practicing
law I was doing both for a while are we
gonna use the money for I mean did you
have at that point figured out the
equipment that you were going to need or
the space you were going to need both in
fact you know we have very specific
needs for the capital equipment
inventory and real estate so I bought
the building in Springfield is revealed
missouri bring field missouri it was a
100 year old building when we bought it
it had no electrical no plumbing and in
some cases just a dirt floor so we
refinished I was like a natural right oh
yeah perfect you know my wife was like
you've got to be kidding me but but you
know that's that was thing we wanted to
be in that part of town it's a part of
town that's sort of blighted there's a
nearby homeless shelter and I wanted to
be a part of the revitalization of the
community so that but that's what we use
the money for the equipment how did you
know what kind of equipment you need it
oh man and that's just been you know the
bleeding edge of the learning curve for
me because I'm not a mechanical person I
don't know where the screwdriver is in
my house but I just learned you know and
and we sourced the equipment from all
over the world I've got a roaster from
Columbia I've got a refiner from
Scotland I've got other equipment from
Ecuador at Emperor from Germany a
hundred-year-old conch from Italy so it
just changed come from all over the
world well we're going to take our break
right now we'll come back in a couple of
moments and talked about the also the
geography involves here and your
interaction with some of the folks
around the world as you as you go in
search of cocoa and transform it into
that wonderful substance we know is
chocolate back with Shawn eskenazi in a
moment ashkenazi chocolate
back once again talking about this
fascinating story of Eskenazi chocolate
Shawn eskenazi is our guest when you
mentioned about it goin down to South
America at the very early state